<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Phil and His 4d</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="phil-and-his-4d" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Phil and His 4d</h2>
			<div epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<header role="presentation">
					<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Chi. <abbr>Sep.</abbr> 26.</p>
				</header>
				<p><span epub:type="z3998:salutation">Friend Dave</span>: Jest a short note Dave to let you know how wear geting a long and I would of wrote a long wile a go only I been so busy. Now I supose you will wander what has been keeping me busy well Dave Im a full fledjed moterist now and if you dont believe it keeps a man busy jest buy a car and try it your self.</p>
				<p>Nell was after me all summer to buy 1 and I was going to get 1 of these here moter sickles with the bath tub attached on to them but when Nell seen it she says she wouldent never have the nerve to ride in it and she insisted on me geting a reglar car so I says I dident have money enough and she says may be we could get a hold of a 2nd hand car some wheres and she kept studing the want ads in the paper till finely 1 day she seen where a man wanted to sell his car for $150.00 dollars and the car was a 1915 4d in good repares. The man was going to move out of town and I supose he dident want to stick it in his sutecase for the fear he would get some grease on his other shirt.</p>
				<p>So she called the man up and says I would be over to see him that <abbr>p.m.</abbr> and when I got there he still had it yet and they dident seem to be nothing the matter with it so I give him the money and then I ast him how I would get the car home because I hadent never drove 1 and he says he would call up a garrage and get a man to come up and lern me so pretty soon the man come and I ast him how much would he charge and he says $.60 per <abbr>hr.</abbr> so bessides the $150.00 cash money for the car it costed me $.20 right off the real beffore I knowed how to run it. I ast the man would it go fast and he says he guest it would because the Russia army just ordered a hole flock of them.</p>
				<p>It was supper time when I got her home but Nell says to hell with supper and I would half to take her out for a ride and while we was out we happened to think all of a sudden that we dident have no garrage to keep a car in it and we couldent leave it out in the <abbr>st.</abbr> all night for the fear some stew might trip over it and sew us for dammiges so Nell says she would sleep on the lunge in the liveing <abbr>rm.</abbr> and I could take the car in with me so I says all right. But you know we live on the 2nd floor and I hadent hardley got ½ way up the stares when I notised the horn wasent working and no way to warn the roaches that we was comeing. So I had to pull up on a step and wait till Nell went acrost to the delicatessen and got a man to come over and fix it.</p>
				<p>Youd of thot that was bad luck enough for 1 day haveing the horn not work but Nell had been pairing her finger nales in the bed <abbr>rm.</abbr> and we hadent no sooner got in then we had a puncture. By the time Id chaste out to the drug store and got some cort plaster and stuck it on and blowed up the tire I was pretty well wore out and ready for a all night sleep. But I had to get up twict in the night and drive a way pinching bugs that was squeezing the horn and rouseing the hole building.</p>
				<p>Well the next day was <abbr>Sun.</abbr> and I and Nell got up early to drive out in the country. It was so hot that I left my vest off and Id stuck a extra bottle of gassoline in 1 of the pockets. Well the man that sold me the car hadent left hardley any in the tank so of coarse we run out of it before we went a mile from home. I says I would hurry back and get the bottle out of my vest but Nell says that would take 2 long and we was right in front of a garrage when it happened so I blowed the horn and a man come out and I told him we wanted gassoline and he says how much and I says how much is it and he says 11 <abbr>cts.</abbr> per <abbr>gal.</abbr> and I says give us ½ a <abbr>pt.</abbr> but he says he dident sell nothing less then a <abbr>gal.</abbr> so we had to buy a <abbr>gal.</abbr> off him. I guess he must have thot we was going to frisco or some wheres. But I figgured may be we would meet an other moterist that was shy and we could sell him back what we dident need. But thats been a <abbr>wk.</abbr> a go and wear still carrying all that extra bessides the bottle I bought.</p>
				<p>Well <abbr>yest.</abbr> I drove down to work and it rained all day and comeing home the car got all over mud and dirt so I took her in the bath <abbr>rm.</abbr> and filled the basin up with water and left her to soke and Nell wasent in when I got home and when she come I forgot to tell her where the car was and with out thinking nothing about it she jest seen the dirty water in the wash basin and pulled the stopper out. I got a hold of a plummer as soon as I could and if he had of came 5 <abbr>min.</abbr> later it would of been good night because the car wasent only a bout 10 <abbr>ft.</abbr> from the main pipe in the <abbr>st.</abbr> when he located her. And I guess you know how plummers charges for there time. $.80 is all it costed me.</p>
				<p>Well the janiter found out this <abbr>a.m.</abbr> that we was keeping a car in the flat and its against the rules and he says he would make us cut it out if he had to put fly paper on the stare way. I says what objections you got if we dont leave it bother no body and he says it tracks mud and oil on to the steps so I says well if we dont run it up and down the stares will you leave us keep it and he says yes. So tomorrow Im going to cut a hole in the screen to the window that connex on to the fire escape and then we wont have no more trubble with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> janiter. I give him a good cigar when we was threw talking. I supose tho that we will half to stick some paper over the hole in the screen nights or all the bugs in this ward will come in and monkey with the horn and so 4th.</p>
				<p>Mean while Nells makeing up to the Thomsons that lives on the 1st floor and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Thomsons a woman that if you dident know who she was youd think she was a hippopothenus and tomorrow night Nells going to ask them to go out with us and we will plant them in the back seat where theyll do the most good. The car will ride smoother that way tho of coarse it will be hard on the rear tires to rub against the pavement onct in a while when they aint used to it.</p>
				<p>You can see where this here motering keeps a man busy Dave and its a hole lot of fun but dont never leave no body tell you its a cheap sport. Not even with a 4d it aint.</p>
				<footer role="presentation">
					<p><span epub:type="z3998:valediction">Your old pal.</span><br/>
					<b epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature">Phil</b>.</p>
				</footer>
			</div>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
