<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Tour No. 2</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="tour-no-2" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Tour No. 2</h2>
			<section id="tour-no-2-1" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="z3998:roman ordinal">I</h3>
				<p>CHGO. ILL. July 1.19.14.<br/>
				DEAR BRO. ED. You will half to excus this pensil &amp; they dont seem to be no ink in the bottle. your post cards come o k and you &amp; Kate must of had 1 grand time up to mackinac and I and Minnie was sore we couldent go a long with you but I was right in the mist of fixing up the summer garden &amp; Minnie says she dident have no close tho from the looks of the bills I got to day from the dept. stores she must of spend most of last mo. buying close but you been marred long enough to know what these women is tho I guess the irish girls dont come no wheres near the dutch girls when it come to spending money. When we was 1st. marred &amp; I had the place on 31th. st. &amp; was cleaning up 2 hunderd a mo. she spend most of that and I offten says to my self if I ever clean up 1 hunderd a mo. more I will be on easy st. but here I am cleaning up over $1000.00 a mo. in the new place &amp; I dont have no more of it left then I did in the old days. &amp; she dont look no better. I dont know where would you of been at if you had of marred a dutch girl on your 1 hunderd &amp; 50 a mo. but you was wise &amp; picked out the right kind of a girl that dont throw a way all there money on close &amp; Kate dont look so sloppy at that.</p>
				<p>Well Ed the reason I am writeing to you so soon after you got back to Det. is I want to tell you the news a bout I &amp; Minnie and if this wasent your busy season I would ask you to come over here &amp; spend the next 2 mos. and look after the place and you and Kate could live in the house &amp; probly in joy the change but I know they must be a lot doing in your busness in Det. at this time of yr. and you dont want to over look O so I cant ask you to pass up your busness on my acct. &amp; we will half to shut up the house &amp; leave Louis Shaffer in charge of the place &amp; I hate to trust a dutch man to look after my busness &amp; a speshauly when I am opening the new summer garden but what else can I do &amp; he is the only 1 that knows the ins &amp; outs of the busness and dont drink nothing him self at lest he says he dont &amp; I never seen him with a drink in front of him. &amp; besides him being Minnies cousin its to his intrust to run things right and not steal nothing off of me &amp; he knows I will treat him right if he treats me right. besides if I found out that he was grafting off of me a round the place I would brake him in 2 and he knows it &amp; he knows it dont pay for no dutch man to monky with a irish man.</p>
				<p>But I havent told you where is it we are going to and you wont beleive it &amp; I dont hardly beleive it my self only I know its true because all day yest. I was husling a round and stratening things up &amp; seeing the boys and fixing up whats to be did at the primeries &amp; I hate to be a way when the primeries comes off because they aint no body that can handle the boys like I if I do say it my self. I all ways figured a man was a sucker to make his wife a promise because they dont never forget nothing but I made Minnie a promise with out thinking &amp; now I am getting payed for it. It come off last winter the time the boys wanted I should go down to french lick with them and they wouldent take no for a anser so I says to Minnie I was going down to french lick &amp; she says I was not going un less I took her a long &amp; I says that this here was going to be a stagg party and they wasent no skirts invited and then she says she wouldent let me go neither &amp; we had it back &amp; 4th. and finely she agrede I could go but she made me promise that I was to take her any wheres she wanted to go this summer and thats the only way I got her to leave me go down to french lick.</p>
				<p>Well the other day she sprung it on me and says do you remember what you promised me when I left you go down to french lick with them stews and I remembered all right but I says no what did I promise &amp; she says you promised you would take me any wheres I want to go this summer &amp; I says o yes I remember but things is going to be busy down to the place and I cant get a way for very long &amp; where would you like to go to benton harbor or south haven or may be cedar lake or some wheres &amp; we can stay a week. &amp; she says I am not asking you where is it we are going because I know where it is &amp; it aint to none of them places a round here &amp; if your a good sport like your all ways clameing you will take me where I say. Then I says all right we will make it atlantic city or N. Y. city or niagara falls &amp; we will stay 2 wks. and then she says if you will shut up your big mouth a min. I will tell you where is it where I want to go &amp; then she sprung it on me &amp; I would of dropt dead if it hadent of been a Sat. &amp; things had to be looked after down to the place. Where do you think she says we was going no wheres but europe &amp; 1st. I looked her in the eye to see was she may be kiding but she wasent kiding and so I says you must be crazy &amp; did she think I was a million air &amp; how could I leave the place all summer when the new summer garden was just open &amp; she begin to bello and says I cared more for my busness then for she and I was a cheap sport and she knowed I was dirty with money but what good did it do her and if I was going to brake my promise she would brake hern that she made when we was marred &amp; would go back to milwaukee &amp; stay there till she found some body that was not tight with there money &amp; she knowed of a hunderd men that would be tickelld to death to be in my place &amp; I knowed she was telling the truth because they is that many right here in Chi judgeing from the way they lamp her when her &amp; I go out any wheres to gather. May be I was a sucker to marry a dutch girl &amp; a girl as pretty as her but I done it &amp; I aint sorry and if these willy boys gets to fresh a round her I will brake them in 2. Well if I had of wanted to be mean I could of turn her down &amp; after she pretty near drownd the house out crying she would of been o k again but I figured a promise was a promise and if a mans ever going to do some thing for any body his wife should ought to get in on it 1st. &amp; it aint like I was broke &amp; cant a ford it and we done a $1300.00 busness this last mo. and pretty near that good in may and Minnie knows it to.</p>
				<p>Well shes went up to milwaukee to brake the news to mother &amp; all them other dutch men and she left me orders to go down to 1 of the steam boat co. &amp; see what kind of a trip can we make. You can bet I wont go no futher then I half to. I wisht you &amp; Kate could go a long with us but I know a trip like this here is going to cost more then you can a ford &amp; if it wasent for youre leaveing your busness I would take you a long as our guest &amp; pay for it but I know you will say no &amp; its busness before plesure. Any way we will keep you posted &amp; may be bring back a present for you &amp; Kate.</p>
				<p>Well Ed. take good care of your self and go home nights.<br/>
				your Bro.<br/>
				Larry M. Burns.</p>
				<p>CHGO. ILL. July 3.19.14.<br/>
				DEAR BRO. ED. I guess I put 1 over &amp; I wont half to be a way all summer but only a little over 3 wks. &amp; I steam boat co. yest. and asked them what was the shortest will be keeping my promise at that. I went down town to a trip they had to europe &amp; back and they tells me I could go. over to plymouth &amp; England and that would take 6 days on the boat &amp; I could start back the 1st. day after I got there if I want to and get back here 2 wks. after I left here but they wouldent hardly be no sence in makeing a trip over there with out staying a wile so I &amp; the man at the steam boat co. figured it out where we could spend 6 days getting over to England &amp; then stay there a wk. &amp; take in Ireland and see some of the places uncle Johnny use to tell us a bout &amp; then come back on the boat to N. Y. city and then if Minnie hasent had enough travveling we can stop up to niagara falls on the way back home from N. Y. city or may be stop off in Det. &amp; make you a little visit or I could leave Minnie in Det. with you and Kate &amp; come home a lone by my self. I thot it took more then a wk. to get a crost the ocean or I wouldent of never made no holler in the 1st. place &amp; it wont put me out none to be a way 3 wks. but I was scared I would half to be a way 2 mos. &amp; miss the primeries. It will cost me à bout $240.00 for I &amp; Minnie on the boat &amp; that includs meals and thats in the 2d. cabin which is right behind the 1st. cabin so the wind is broke for us and it aint near so cold as if we had to ride in the 1st. cabin. Besides the 2d. cabin must be near the center of the boat where it aint such ruff rideing but some people that has did a lot of travveling on the ocean likes ruff rideing and pays a little more money to ride up in the 1st. cabin near the head end of the boat. All to gather with the $240.00 for boat fair &amp; meals and R. R. fair &amp; every thing acrost the ocean &amp; from here to N. Y. city &amp; back wont be over $500.00 for the 2 of us and theys X curshons on all the R. R. to N. Y. city and back this time of year so may be it wont be up to my figure $500.00 and the place if Shaffer takes care of it right should ought to clear at lest 2 times that sum dureing the time wile we are a way. Theys a boat leaves N. Y. city Tues. the 21 of the mo. and thats the 1 I guess I &amp; Minnie will take but I will half to see if that dates all o k with her &amp; that she aint got no dutch picknicks to go to a long a bout that time. She is comeing back from milwaukee for the 4th. and will be home when I get home tonight and if the 21 of the mo. is all right with her I will buy the boat fair Monday.</p>
				<p>Well Ed. enough for this time and hopeing you dont run up against no full hands.</p>
				<p>Your Bro.<br/>
				L. M. Burns.</p>
				<p>CHGO. ILL. July 10.19.14.<br/>
				DEAR BRO. ED. You will excus this pensil I got pen &amp; ink but the pen dont work good. Well Ed. I couldent put that over a bout going to England &amp; Ireland and comeing right back again because Minnie wouldent stand for it&amp; says I was welshing &amp; I says what do you mean by welshing I promised to take you any wheres you want to go &amp; you says you want to go to europe so what kick you got come ing because if Ireland &amp; England is not europe where is they. Then she says You dont know if there europe or not but that dont make no diffrunce because if thats where your going to take me I aint going for who cares a bout them places. I says I am irish &amp; thats why I want to go to Ireland &amp; she says yes your people was irish but you couldent never make no body beleive you was irish because your nose turns the wrong way and you cant talk no more irish then I can and if you was to go over there and tell them you was irish they would run you out &amp; besides if all the irish is as tight as you I dont want to see no more of them &amp; I will give you your choise ether you can take me on a real trip to europe or I will go up to milwaukee and stay there. For a wile I felt like telling her to go to milwaukee or some wheres else but you know how it is &amp; a man dont feel like being nasty to a woman even his wife it dont make no diffrunce what a fool she makes out of her self. So finely I give up argueing with her &amp; let her have her own way and Monday I &amp; her went down to gather to the steam boat co. and heres what we got framed up and its all framed up. We are going all over the world and we are going to see all they is to see and then sum &amp; I got the hole trip right here in a book.</p>
				<p>The trip what we are going to take is what they call tour no. 2 &amp; they will be 6 or 7 people going a long with us and I dont know what is there name but Minnies got there name and we never seen them but the steam boat co. fixed it up that we all was to go to gather &amp; when a gang gos to gather like that it dont cost no body so much money but it is with a gang I would hate to go a lone or I &amp; Minnie a lone to gather &amp; no body with us. In the 1st. place we go from N. Y. city to Bremen &amp; from there to Germany &amp; the fair on the boat will be $70.00 a peace &amp; that includs meals &amp; our party are going to ride in the 2d. cabin &amp; have the wind broke for us. We dont stop at ether England or Ireland so you see its a fast boat we are takeing &amp; we leave N. Y. city on Thurs. the 23 of July &amp; the name of the boat is prince S. N. katrina and we will be 7 days getting to bremen the 1st. stop so we should ought to get to bremen the 30 of this mo. but may be not till the 31. when ever we get to bremen we hop right on a train and go to handover a old town that must be older then Chgo. but we dont only stop there a part of 1 day so I dont mind if its old and you know Det. &amp; Chgo. is both old but they got new hotels so whats the diffrunce and we probly wont half to stay over night any way. Then theys an other old town hildesheim thats a bout as old as handover &amp; we wont stay there no longer then we half to and after we get out of there we go to Germany &amp; berlin &amp; we stay there 4 or 5 days but as Minnie says the dutch word for beer is the same as the american so I will get a long o k and 1 of the places there that we got to visit is sans souci &amp; may be its a immatashon of the 1 in Chgo. &amp; they got a dance hall &amp; tables &amp; if thats right we will have a good time. after we get threw germany we go to dresden &amp; prague &amp; Vienna &amp; then we go up to Venice where they got the boats in stead of the st. cars and the Dog house &amp; I guess I can show them wops a thing or 2 a bout puting the spagety a way &amp; then we spend 4 or 5 days a round them wop lakes &amp; may be I can catch a few musky and then we go to switzerland &amp; lucerne &amp; then back to germany and I dont see why should we go back unless they think may be we would of left some of our bagage when we was there before. &amp; some of the places we got to go to is heidelberg &amp; frank fort &amp; may be while I am there I can buy some sausige cheap for the place eh Ed. Then we go to mayence &amp; cologne &amp; amsterdam and the hague where all them diffrunt countrys met to gather &amp; fixed it up that they wasent to be no more fighting back &amp; 4th. and brussels &amp; Bellijum &amp; then we finely get to Paris and we stay in Paris 5 days &amp; they got a lot of places down in the book where there going to take us to in Paris but they dont look good to me &amp; I wouldent be suprized if I snuck off by my self and done a little sight seen only if I snuck a way and left Minnie a lone some of them french willy boys would probly get fresh or else she would go in to 1 of them Paris hat &amp; dress stores &amp; start chargeing things like she does a round here only there even worse burglers in Paris then in Chgo. &amp; she would come back here looking swell probly but I would half to eat the free lunch down to the place the rest of the winter.. When we get threw Paris we go to a place called cherbourg where they got a steam boat co. that will bring us back to N. Y. city &amp; the hole trip costs us $395.00 a peace and thats just wile we are in europe &amp; dont includ the boat fair over &amp; back and thats a bout $140.00 a peace but the $395.00 includes the fair on the trains &amp; boats we ride on in europe &amp; the hotel bill but we got to pay for the drinks but the $395.00 includs guides to guide us a round &amp; hacks to take us a round to diffrunt places only the guides probly talks there own languidge &amp; they wont do me no good. &amp; it dont includ tiping the waiters but if there any thing like the waiters down to the place they wont build no bungleohs off of what I give them. The trip will take us 64 days all to gather &amp; I figure I will be lucky if I get off with less then $1200.00 figureing $1070.00 for boat &amp; R. R. fair &amp; hotel bord bill &amp; loging &amp; the other $130.00 for drinks &amp; what ever Minnie buys in Paris and may be a little present for your self.</p>
				<p>We leave here on the 21 of this mo. &amp; we got X curshon rates 2 &amp; from N. Y. city &amp; the round trip is $26.00 a peace not includeing birth &amp; meals on the train &amp; I forgot to put that in wile I was figureing the expences so you see it will cost me nearer $1300.00 then $1200.00 &amp; I guess a trip like that would bankrup you wouldent it Ed. so your lucky you dident marry no dutch girl or no pretty 1 thats got these nosions in there head a bout travveling. I wisht I had of stayed a way from french lick last winter because evry body accept I &amp; Pat was on the wagon.</p>
				<p>I will be pretty busy before we start but may be I will get time to write to you from N. Y. city because I aint going to spend no time monking around before we take the boat.</p>
				<p>my regards to Kate &amp; be good Ed.</p>
				<p>Your Bro.<br/>
				Larry M. Burns.</p>
				<p>N. Y. city. July 22.19.14.<br/>
				DEAR BRO. ED. Here we are I &amp; Minnie &amp; Minnie is all dressed up like a horse and got a bunch of new close and she got them in Chgo. the day before yest. so the bill will be waiting to wellcome me home the last of Sept. The boys give me some send off &amp; when I got on the train I dident know weather I was going to europe or oak park &amp; Minnies folks from milwaukee was down to the train to see us off &amp; I guess Minnie was sore a bout me being lit up but a man dont start for europe evry day &amp; if I am spending $1300.00 I am going to get a run for my money.</p>
				<p>We got here this a m &amp; come to the king charles hotel &amp; thats where I am at now &amp; Minnies takeing a nap &amp; shes. sore at me now because I turned her down when she wanted to get some money off of me to go over on 5th. av. &amp; get more close &amp; I turned her down because she dont know when to stop and shes got enough close now to start a dept. store &amp; shes got a trunk a long with her besides 2 suit cases and a grip she borrowed off of her mother that looks like it was boughten before the fire and all I got for my close is 2 grips but I brung pretty near all the good close I got includeing the dress suit that I bought for the sullivan banquit &amp; ½ a doz. shirts besides my sox &amp; 3 changes of under ware and 1 doz. collars and a couple extra ties &amp; my patent lether low shoes and a cap to ware on the boat &amp; my over coat that Minnie made me bring a long tho we will be back home the last of Sept. and then of corse a couple of night gowns. I guess them other passengers on the boat will look at me when I get that old soup &amp; fish on eh Ed.</p>
				<p>1st. thing this a m after we got our breakfast we went down to the steam boat co. N. Y. office &amp; fixed things up and was interduced to the rest of the party that is going a long with us in our party and they is 7 of them besides I &amp; Minnie and 2 of them is a marred couple &amp; then theys a couple men that Minnie says is school teachers and 3 girls a bout 25 yrs. of age and pretty good lookers but they acted like they was proud &amp; stuck on there self. I cant tell you there names but Minnies got them wrote down some wheres.</p>
				<p>The steam boat co. man asked us how many cabins did we want &amp; he looked right at me because I guess he figured I looked more like ready money then the rest of them and may be he thought I was paying all there fair and I says 1 cabin is all we want and he says I mean for the hole party &amp; I says we are all going to gather in the 2d. cabin and he says how do you want to sleep and I says as good as we can &amp; then 1 of the girls buts in &amp; says us 3 girls is to gather and we want 1 cabin and I says all right you can take the 1st. cabin and pay the diffrunce besides brakeing the wind for us. I guess that woke her up because she dident say nothing more. Minnie horned in then and fixed up a bout our rooms while I was talking to 1 of the school teachers and he acts like a pretty good guy and we laughed &amp; joked to gather while the rest of them was fighting over there rooms. I told him that story a bout the 2 irish men pat &amp; mike that come over on the boat to gather &amp; I thot he would bust laughing. After we was fixed up some of them went down to the dock to take a look at the boat but I figure I will see enough of it while I am on it &amp; I &amp; Minnie come back to the hotel to get rested up and tonight may be we will go to a pitcher show some wheres &amp; I guess they must be some good ones a round here if you know where to find them at.</p>
				<p>Now I got to see a bout getting our bagage took down to the dock &amp; speaking of bagage I musent forget to open up the trunk again &amp; slip in a couple cakes of soap and a couple towls thats got the king charles printed on them and they is to good to use down to the place but we can spring them at home when Minnies folks or some body comes to visit.</p>
				<p>Well Ed. be good &amp; dont take no wooden nickles &amp; of corse you wont get no male from me till we get acrost on the other side of the ocean because they aint much chance of us runing in to a male box on the ocean eh Ed. With out no jokeing this is going to be a grand trip &amp; I wisht you could go a long &amp; may be some day I will have enough saved up so as I can take you a long on an other trip. With out no jokeing I wouldent miss this trip for nothing now I got started on it and just think of going a round the world &amp; seeing all they is to be seen &amp; I feel sorry for men that aint had my luck or aint good busness men like I or what ever it is that I owe my sucess to and cant take these trips but has got to stay in 1 place all the time and not never see nothing. But be good &amp; give our regards the wifes &amp; mine to Kate and dont take no wooden nickles &amp; if you do get a chance run over to Chgo. &amp; see how the place is getting a long but I guess Louis Shaffer will run things o k and he should ought to.</p>
				<p>Well be good Ed.<br/>
				Your Bro.<br/>
				Larry M. Burns.</p>
				<p>ps Dont worry a bout us because they say this steam boat co. dident never have no wreck &amp; is the safest co. they is &amp; they dont go near where them ice bgs. is at so they is not much danger of nothing going wrong &amp; I am not worring because it dont get a man nothing to worry. Be good Ed. &amp; dont take no bad money.</p>
				<p>on the prinzessin Katrina.<br/>
				July. 25.19.14.</p>
				<p>DEAR BRO. ED. I bet you dident think you would get a letter from me so quick &amp; I wouldent of knew enough to write 1 only I was walking a long the deck with prof. Baker 1 of the school teachers in our party and we come to a male box right on the boat and I dident know what it was at 1st. but I asked him &amp; he told me and it says on it some thing in german or dutch and it means the male closes for N.Y. city at noon evry day so I asked prof. Baker how they got the male back to N.Y. city and he says they put it in a bbl. &amp; throw it over bord &amp; the boats comeing from the other way is suposed to pick up these bbls. &amp; take them a long &amp; there speed boats so it dont take them hardly no time at all to get back to N.Y. city so you will rec. this letter a lot sooner then if I maled it over acrost on the other side.</p>
				<p>Well Ed. this is some boat &amp; its a bout 3 times as big as the city of benton harbor &amp; its 4 storys high &amp; 600 ft. long &amp; has got electrick lights &amp; they must have there own electrick light plt. on the boat or else they got wires conecting with the cabels on the bottom. &amp; I am glad we pickt out the 2d. cabin in stead of the 1st because the 1st. cabin has got 4 hunderd pgrs. &amp; we only got 330 so we aint so crowded but I was wrong a bout the 2d. cabin being back of the 1st. 1 because the 1st. 1 is right in the middle of the boat and they must begin numbring from the middle but it dont make no diffrunce because the weather has been grand &amp; if we was in the 1st. cabin where they dont get no breeze we would probly suffakate. The book all so speaks a bout they being 4 saloons on the boat but I only seen 3 of them so far but 3 is a plenty &amp; if a man drinks all they got in 1 of them hes doing pretty good. I been all over the boat wile Minnie hasent did nothing but set in the parlor &amp; walk up &amp; down the deck a couple times a day &amp; chin with the other skirts &amp; I been trying to get her to livun up but nothing doing &amp; may be she is sea sick but I dont see how even a woman could get sea sick because the weathers been grand &amp; the oceans just as smoth as mich. av. prof. Baker who has been acrost before I dont know how many times showed me all over the boat from the engine room to the steerage where the steering is done at. I told Minnie a bout they being a jimnasum on the boat &amp; she says I better go in there evry day &amp; work some of the fat off of me &amp; may be thats a good tip because I have fated up some since I got a chance to rest up my self &amp; let others do the heavy work a round the place. The boat is 20 thous. horse power so prof. Baker tells me but I guess it gets a long better then 20 thous. horses would if they was pulling out here in the middle of the ocean. they got a wire lest tellegram on the boat &amp; we get all the news from all countrys evry day but they aint been nothing from Chgo. as yet &amp; I aint seen your name menshoned Ed. so may be they dont know who you are. Then they got a barber shop &amp; them saloons I was telling you a bout and 2 or 3 rooms to smoke in &amp; play cards &amp; I am going to get in to a game tonight with some men I met on the boat &amp; I wouldent play no cards if Minnie would livun up &amp; pal a round with me but any way I am haveing the time of my life &amp; if she aint haveing a good time with them skirts its her own falt.</p>
				<p>I wisht you could see the meals they hand out &amp; no wonder they soak a man for the boat fair because the meals is included in it. I thot breakfast must be there big meal when I seen it but they come back at noon with 9 or 10 corses &amp; then at supper they hand you enough to choke a horse but they aint managed to choke me yet but Minnie makes me ware the soup &amp; fish at supper because the 2 school teachers done it the 1st. night &amp; the collars enough to choke me. It is some swell dinning room where we eat at &amp; its full of pretty pitchers drawed by a man named Louis Seize &amp; there pretty good for a dutch man. Our party of 9 eats at 1 table but we dont all get there at onct most of the time but we was all there to supper to gather last night &amp; we had a swell time because this here prof. Baker got after me to tell some storys &amp; I told the 1 a bout the 2 irish men mike &amp; pat that come acrost to gather on the boat &amp; then I told them the 1 a bout the men driveing up to Fogartys house in the auto. and asking weather Fogarty lived there but I dont know if I ever told you that 1 or not. Two men drove up to Fogartys house in a auto. &amp; 1 of them run up and rung the door bell &amp; Mrs. Fogarty come to the door &amp; 1 of the men says does Fogarty live here and she says yes bring him in. you see she thot Fogarty was piped &amp; they was bringing him home &amp; the men was just friends of Fogartys &amp; was trying to find him &amp; so they asked his wife if thats where he lived. Any way I told them that 1 &amp; 3 or 4 others &amp; I thot theyd bust laughing &amp; then I asked them why dident we all go in the cafe to gather &amp; make a night of it but the 3 girls says they was sleepy &amp; Minnie had a date to play rummy with some of the skirts on the boat &amp; the other man &amp; his wife in our party is a couple grouchs &amp; so I &amp; prof. Baker &amp; the other school teacher set down to gather in the cafe &amp; told storys &amp; histed a few till it was time to go to bed. I lerned all the names of our party &amp; the 3 girls is miss hendricks &amp; lamont &amp; griffith from What Cheer iowa so why should they be swelled on them self &amp; I guess there o k when you know them better. prof. Baker is 1 of the school teachers &amp; the other is prof. Hunter &amp; they teach school in some collige in O. &amp; the marred couple is mr &amp; mrs chambers from down south some wheres. at supper last night this chambers asked me what busness was I in &amp; I was getting ready to tell him when Minnie horns in &amp; says I was a dr. &amp; prof. Baker &amp; Hunter both knowed she was kiding because I all ready told them a bout the place but I dont know if they give it a way to the others or not but I guess chambers fell for the dr. stuff o k because he begin asking me a bout hay feever &amp; if Minnie hadent of change the subjeck I would of been up against it.</p>
				<p>Well Ed. its time to go down &amp; wash up &amp; put on the soup &amp; fish &amp; get in on the big feed and after supper I will see how the cards is runing &amp; if I can help pay expences. Minnie coped $3.00 out of the rummy game last night so if she can win I should certinly ought to because she plays cards like a cow. any way I will make them go some.</p>
				<p>regards to Kate &amp; watch your step &amp; dont slip.</p>
				<p>Your Bro.<br/>
				Larry M. Burns.</p>
				<p>on the prinzessin Katrina.<br/>
				July 26. 19.14.<br/>
				DEAR BRO. ED. I only been up 1/2 hour &amp; its 11.30 but I dident get no to much sleep because we had some seshon last night &amp; it dident brake up till 6 this a m but I trimmed them for $120.00 and in a $1.00 limit game at that &amp; they was all men I never seen before &amp; at 1 time I was $130.00 a head of the game &amp; would of gave anything to have it broke up because I was so sleepy I couldent hardly keep my eyes open but I dident feel like quiting way a head because they was a pretty nice bunch of gents I was playing with. I dident hold no real big hands all night outside of 1 ace full &amp; 1 ten full but I helped evry pair I drawed to pretty near &amp; no body helped against me when I had the openers. They was $30.00 in the pot I coped with the ten full &amp; that was the bigest pot they was &amp; 1 guy filled a flush that time &amp; an other had 3 kings to go in on. prof. Baker set behind me till he got to sleepy to set up. He kept calling me dr. Burns and pretty soon the hole table were calling me doc but as long as I was winning I dident care if they called me hinky dink. I wisht I could grab off $120.00 evry night wear on the boat both comeing &amp; going &amp; the trip wouldent hardly cost me nothing. I told prof. Baker that when I seen him out on deck a wile a go but he says I was lucky to get 12 that much in a mo. playing with 2d. cabin pgrs. because they wasent genally dirty with money. He says he wouldent be suprized if that 1 game broke the most of them but they wasent no body handed me no i o u but I will be careful next time.</p>
				<p>The weather keeps on grand &amp; the oceans as smoth as glass &amp; the capt. says we may probly get in to bremen a head of time but I dont care now &amp; I aint in no hurry as long as I keep on catching my 3d. man.</p>
				<p>This is just a short note &amp; I aint had no breakfast yet &amp; you will half to excus the pensil but I dont know where it is they keep there pen &amp; ink. So long Ed. &amp; dont take no counter fit money.</p>
				<p>Your Bro.<br/>
				L. M. Burns.</p>
				<p>on the prinzessin Katrina. July 28. 19.14. DEAR BRO. ED. Minnies livund up finely Ed. may be because the trips pretty near over and wear geting near germany &amp; I guess shes been home sick &amp; she may be thinks bremen will be some thing like milwaukee. I took them for $40.00 more in the game yesterday p m &amp; I coped $15.00 last night but I would of got more if I had of started sooner only Minnie woke up and wanted I should play rummy with her &amp; the 3 girls &amp; I had to do it tho rummys a rummy game just like its name &amp; espeshaly when you play with women. The 3 girls was all calling me dr. Burns &amp; you cant never tell me they dont know I aint no dr. because they couldent hardly help from laughing evry time they says dr. &amp; they kept asking me what to do for hay feever &amp; other kinds of dizees &amp; I kided a long with them &amp; told them the cure for evry thing they brung up &amp; I told them when they had hay feever the only thing to do was to hit the hay &amp; I thot theyd bust laughing but all the time Minnie thinks I got them fooled &amp; when I told her in the state room that they was wise she says they wasent so shes trying to kid somebody and shes a bout the only 1 thats geting kided out side of may be mr. &amp; mrs. chambers. I was in a hurry to get in to the real game so when 1 of the girls asked was we tired of playing rummy I says it was kind of tire sum &amp; finely they cut out the game but then miss Hendricks says that miss Griffith was a shark at telling fortuns with cards &amp; did I want my fortun told &amp; of corse I had to say yes tho I could of told my fortun a hole lot quicker if they had of let me run a long to the big game.</p>
				<p>well miss griffith told my fortun &amp; she says I am going to make a lot of money more money than I ever dreamd a bout &amp; that I am going to have nothing but good luck from now on &amp; it was a pretty good fortun but of corse they aint nothing in that bunk tho some people beleives it.</p>
				<p>When she got threw I says how much was it &amp; she says $.50 &amp; I wasent going to be no cheap skate so I give her a 1/2 dollar &amp; told her to buy some candy &amp; she kept the money &amp; of corse Minnie balled me out for it when we got in the state room where I went to get my money before geting in to the p g game &amp; Minnie says if I am giveing money a way to women I wont half to leave home to find 1 thats willing to take it but if miss Griffith wasent a pretty girl Minnie wouldent of cared if I had of gave her $.75 in stead of $.50. Well my luck started all o k but as I say the game only lasted a little wile and I only got a way with $15.00 but thats a lot better then looseing $15.00.</p>
				<p>Today Minnies been after me to walk up &amp; down the deck all the time &amp; we must of walked 70 miles &amp; shes still walking but I cant see nothing in walking up &amp; down when they aint no new senery but nothing but the same ocean to look at all the wile &amp; when you see it onct you see it all ways. I will walk all she wants me to when we get where they is something to see say in germany or Paris.</p>
				<p>well Ed. the trips pretty near over I mean the ocean trip &amp; its been a grand trip &amp; if any body ever tells you a mans libel to get sea sick or not in joy evry minut of the trip you tell them there off there nut.</p>
				<p>Kindest regards to Kate &amp; dont take no bad money.</p>
				<p>Your Bro.<br/>
				Larry M. Burns.</p>
				<p>ps when I say a man in joys evry minut of the trip I mean he in joys it if hes after a rest because they aint realy nothing doing on a trip like this &amp; a man would get pretty tired if it wasent for the p g game but its all o k for a man that wants to get a way from busness &amp; not have no excitmunt for a wile.</p>
				<p>on the prinzessin Katrina.<br/>
				July 30.19.14.<br/>
				Bro. Ed. Well Ed. here we are and we dont know where we are &amp; this was the day when we was suposed to land in bremen but we aint in no bremen or no wheres else as yet and they aint no telling when we will get there tho the capt. says we will get there the day after tomorrow at night &amp; that will be 2 days late but how are you going to tell weather the capt. is telling the truth or if he knows where hes at because he wasent telling the truth when he says we would get in a head of time &amp; he wasent telling the truth when he says they would be good weather all the way. I wisht I had of stayed home from french lick last winter &amp; I wouldent of been here.</p>
				<p>I guess the worst is over now &amp; if I thot it wasent I would tie a peace of led a round me &amp; jump over the side but all the rotten things that could hapen has hapend all ready so the worst must be over.</p>
				<p>in the 1st. place I got in bad with the party at the supper table the night before last &amp; I will tell you how it come off &amp; you see if you think they had a lisence to get sore. prof. Baker asked me to tell them some storys &amp; I started off with that 1 a bout pat &amp; his wife haveing the scrap bout there pig and the story dident go very good so I thot I would wake them up and I told them that 1 a bout mr. &amp; mrs. Flynn &amp; the burgler &amp; they aint realy nothing wrong a bout the story only just them 2 words but the 3 girls got up &amp; beat it and so did mr. &amp; mrs. chambers &amp; Minnie says where do you think your at in a baroom &amp; the only ones that stuck with me was the 2 profs. I felt pretty rotten &amp; I asked the profs. would they drink a bottle of wine with me &amp; they was willing but we dident stop at no 1 bottle but had sevrul &amp; they let me lap up the most of it &amp; then like a rummy I went &amp; got all my money accept $50.00 &amp; got in the big game &amp; I never played in such luck in my life. right off the reel I have 3 aces to go and the pots opend a head of me &amp; stayed with &amp; then I tilts it &amp; the 2 thats in stands the raze &amp; we draw cards &amp; the guy a head of me catches 2 trays to a pare of them &amp; him standing a raze on 2 trays. I fill up &amp; we go to it &amp; it costs me some thing like $32.00. If this guy had of had any lisence in the pot I wouldent of gave a dam. I anteed a way a bout 20 bucks then with out getting nothing &amp; then finely I picks up a doose full &amp; all they was out against it was a 6 full &amp; 4 5 spots &amp; finely we begin playing roodels &amp; I got 1 big hand a ace high flush &amp; bumped in to another 6 full &amp; they cleaned me out of what I had with me a bout $185.00 &amp; I was going back to the state room &amp; get the $50.00 but prof. Baker wouldent let me. Of corse I got my letter of creddit but I cant get nothing on that till we land &amp; Minnies got a roll on her but I couldent get it off her with out a shot gun. the servunts on this here boat wont buy no french auto mobiles with what I give them.</p>
				<p>well we went up on the deck after I was cleaned prof. Baker &amp; I &amp; prof. Hunter &amp; it had turned off cold &amp; prof. Hunter says they was a storm comeing up &amp; it looked like it was going to be ruff &amp; the boat was beggining to stagger all ready before we went to bed but it wasent nothing then to what it was when we got up in the morning only I dident get up &amp; I only got up just a little wile a go after being in my birth since the night before last. Ed. we had some storm and the capt. says it was the worst he seen in 20 yrs. of going back &amp; 4th. acrost the ocean &amp; back. They was 2 or 3 times when the smoke stacks was down in the water where the keels suposed to be &amp; the keel was up where the smoke stacks is genally at. The capt. add mited that he dident know weather we was up or down or headed for bremen or cedar lake. Orders was gave that no pgrs. was to be aloud on the deck but they dident half to give no orders like that because they wasent no body could of stayed there un less they was naled down. Do you remmember that coster I &amp; you &amp; Kate &amp; Minnie rode on out to forest pk. well Ed. that was as smoth as mich. av. come paired with this here boat. I have road in taxi cabs &amp; seenick railroads that was pretty ruff rideing but I could lay down &amp; go to sleep in 1 of them after what I went threw.</p>
				<p>I dont know wich was sicker I or Minnie but I guess I was because they couldent of been no body sicker then me &amp; still be a live &amp; they was sevrul times when I would of gave a man a dollar to shoot me threw the tempul. I bet if they was 1 of them bbls. with the male in throwed over bord yest. it rolled all the way to N.Y. city with out no boat picking it up. I use to get pretty bad when we was kids &amp; laped up them manhattan cock tails but nothing like this &amp; onct or twict I was sick going over to st. Joe but if I had of been that sick yest. I would of thot I was in the best of helth. I fell out of the birth 3 times &amp; the 3d. time I just layed there on to the floor and rolled a round because that wasent as bad as rolling a round in the birth for a while &amp; then geting bumped on to the floor out of the birth. 1 of the waiters come in &amp; picked me up some time last night &amp; it was geting commer then &amp; so I got a little sleep but I feel rotten yet &amp; I dont half to go in to no jimnasum now because they aint nothing left on me to work off. Minnies still in her birth &amp; I asked her a wile a go when was she going to get up &amp; she says never but she will get over that just like I done.</p>
				<p>Well Ed. the boat has went out of its corse and the capt. says he knows where hes at but how do we know if he knows or dont know &amp; he says we will be in bremen on the 1 of Aug. late that day &amp; I hope we will before an other 1 of them storms comes up &amp; if we ever do get to bremen I will stay there or in europe till they build a bridge over the ocean because I wont take no more chances on a boat after what I went threw. In stead of stringing a man up for murder they should ought to put him on 1 of these here boats &amp; make him ride acrost the ocean &amp; back till he couldent stand it no more &amp; I guess a bout 2 trips like this here would finnish him. what I cant figure is why they give you all them swell meals &amp; they must know all the wile that there going to be waisted.</p>
				<p>Well Ed. I lost my repatashon &amp; I lost my money &amp; I lost evry thing else &amp; that girl that told my fortun &amp; says I was going to have nothing but good luck was some fortun teller was she not &amp; I got a nosion to ask her for my $.50 back only I guess she wouldent speak to me now. Your Bro. Larry M. Burns.</p>
				<p>on the prinzessin Katrina.<br/>
				July 31.1914.<br/>
				DEAR BRO. ED. The weather is grand and we are haveing grand weather and are geting a long grand &amp; you wouldent never guess that they had been a storm to see the ocean now because its just as smoth as grand blvd. I &amp; Minnie is both o k again and the both of us is feeling o k &amp; it dont hardly seem posable that just a little wile a go I was pretty near deth &amp; dident care weather I got well or not &amp; the sooner I dide the better. prof. Baker says that when a mans sea sick he is a frade at 1st. that he is going to die &amp; after words he is a frade he isent. &amp; thats pretty good &amp; just hits the nale on the head ist. a mans a frade he is O going to die and after words is a frade he isent. prof. Baker was kiding me this a m &amp; come up to me &amp; says I want you should give me some addvise dr. Burns what is the best thing a man can do when he is sea sick &amp; I says I can tell you the best thing I done &amp; you dont half to go to no dr. to lern how. prof. Baker says he wasent a bit sick all threw the storm but after words I asked the capt. if he knowed of any body on the boat that wasent sick &amp; he says no even the boat it self lost its cargo. our party havent all been able to set down to the table since the night I got in wrong but I &amp; the 3 girls is friends again so the only people thats mad at me yet is mr. &amp; mrs. Chambers &amp; of corse Minnie but she aint mad at me no more for geting in wrong but now she is mad at me because shes been sick &amp; to hear her tell it you would think it was my falt &amp; it was me that was ruff &amp; not the ocean. but she will be better when we get to bremen &amp; we will get there sure tommorow because I was asking the capt. a bout it &amp; he says we will get there sure tommorow because they aint no more storms in sight but its going to be grand weather &amp; they aint nothing can stop us from going right a long in to bremen. I am certunly anxius to get there &amp; I guess I had enough rotten luck &amp; cant have no more &amp; the girl that told my fortun says she ment that all that good luck was just going to comense now in sted of 3 or 4 days a go. &amp; now that wear pretty near there I can realy say its been a grand trip &amp; I wouldent of missed it for nothing in the world &amp; I am glad I fixed it to come &amp; let Minnie come a long with me though she says I wouldent never of came if it wasent for she makeing me &amp; of corse clames all the credit but I all ways wanted to make this trip &amp; if she only knowed it I was thinking a bout comeing before she ever said a word. &amp; I feel that I am pretty lucky to have the money &amp; make a trip like this &amp; I feel sorry for people that has to stick a round home all the wile &amp; dont never see nothing. I dont wonder that people gos nuts a bout travveling acrost the ocean &amp; a trip like this makes michigan city &amp; benton harbor &amp; them places look pretty sick.</p>
				<p>I will drop you a card from bremen or may be wait till we get to Germany &amp; drop you a card from there because I know it must be pretty slow for you to be shut up in Det. &amp; me haveing this big time.</p>
				<p>Your Bro.<br/>
				L. M. Burns.</p>
				<p>on the prinzessin Katrina.<br/>
				Aug. 1.19.14.<br/>
				DEAR BRO. ED. This is a good buy letter Ed. &amp; I dont know weather you will rec. it or not. If you rec. this letter you will know long before you rec. it whats came off &amp; probly you all ready know it that theys a war bet. germany &amp; England &amp; france &amp; russia and pretty near all the countrys in europe accept norway &amp; ejypt. The news was gave out on the boat this a m but prof. Baker says the boat got a wire lest tel. a bout it yest. or even before that but was keeping it a secrit &amp; if they had give it out when they got it I would of made them run in to England or Ireland and let me off of the boat but now there going to try &amp; run a head to bremen &amp; what chance have I got when them dutch gets a hold of me because prof. Baker says theys nothing but dutch in bremen &amp; if a man cant talk no dutch or prove that hes a dutch man they will murder him a live. &amp; if we dont get to bremen before the England or france navey gets us we aint got no chance neither because they will see the dutch name on the boat &amp; blow us up before asking us who are we. prof. Baker says the capt. told him it was pretty near a cinch that we would get to bremen o k &amp; he says I should ought to be great full that my wifes a dutch man because they wont do nothing to her &amp; she will be o k wile the men on the boat thats got wifes that isent dutch will be murdered both them &amp; there wife. I says what will Minnie, do all a lone a mist the dutch men with out no husband to look after her &amp; he says a pretty girl like she wont have no trouble because 1 of the dutch army offusers will fall for her &amp; probly want to get marred to her or may be the zar him self will fall for her &amp; she will live in a palice. prof. Baker says I would be ok if I could talk dutch &amp; he tried to lern me how but I am to nervus &amp; cant lern nothing &amp; all the rest of them in our party can talk dutch accept I &amp; mr. &amp; mrs. chambers &amp; so us 3 will be the ones they get &amp; even if they dont kill us right a way but stick us in jale I will half to be lockd up with them &amp; they aint no good &amp; never was.</p>
				<p>Ed. I am to nervus to write &amp; I am just writeing to tell you whats came off &amp; if 1 of these dutch men gets Minnie I want you to have the place Ed. &amp; if any body makes a fus a bout it show them this letter &amp; I dont want none of Minnies people to get a hold of it after what shes pulled off. I know now that the old man was right when he says I shouldent of never mixed up with the dutch. but its to late &amp; what can I do. Minnies going to get rid of me just like she wanted to &amp; the reason she done it this way in sted of sticking a knife in my back is because they cant never prove this on her. &amp; prof. Baker says that any body with sence could of saw this comeing &amp; Minnie knowed it before we left home &amp; probly some of them dutch friends of hern tiped her off. your lucky Ed. &amp; if I was to do it over again I would marry some old stiff with out no looks &amp; it wouldent be no dutch man neither.</p>
				<p>I been up on the deck since I begin this letter to see was they a boat comeing after us but they is none &amp; evry body says its a cinch we will get to bremen. remmember Ed. I want you to have the place &amp; an other thing I want you to do is to tell this hole thing to pres. Wilson &amp; show him this letter if you half to go clear to Wash. &amp; see that he gets these dutch for what they done to me. I am to nervus to write Ed. but I want you to have the place &amp; dont let Minnies folks get a hold of it &amp; take it your self Ed. you &amp; Kate &amp; do the best you can with it. Its a good thing now that you tended bar all them yrs. at callighans. If Louis Shaffer says any thing to you brake him in 2 &amp; tell him what you think of he &amp; his famly the hole kit &amp; caboodel of them.</p>
				<p>I been up on deck again &amp; the capt. told prof. Baker we would be in bremen in 4 hours &amp; prof. Baker says he will male this letter for me &amp; look you up when he gets back. some day he will be back in the good old US but I wont never be Ed. &amp; I wont never see you again &amp; I wont even be burred in the semmitery where I payed for the lot &amp; may be not burred at all but eat up by the croes. Minnies got the st. room door locked &amp; wont let me in but I seen her since the news come &amp; I told her what I think of her. She busted out crying &amp; may be shes a little sorry now but what good is that now &amp; why did she do it &amp; why did she in sisst on us comeing &amp; make me come when some thing told me I should stay home or go to cedar lake &amp; why did I ever make that trip to french lick last winter or why wasent I sattisfide to marry a plane irish girl like you &amp; leave the dutch to the dutch.</p>
				<p>I am to nervus to write &amp; I just want to tell you the place is yours &amp; you wont never see Minnie again because even if the zar or some other dutch man dont grab her she will be a shamed to look you in the face. &amp; good buy Ed. &amp; god bless you &amp; the same to Kate.</p>
				<p>from your Bro.<br/>
				Lawrence Martin Burns.</p>
				<p>ps prof. Baker says he will do all he can to save me but what chance has he got. If its comeing its comeing &amp; I been a good man Ed. but I dident have no sence.</p>
			</section>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
